---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: >
  Freelance Remote Conf 2016
date: 2016-08-19 18:25:40
episode_number:
duration:
audio_url:
podcast: page
tags:
  - page
---

### The Smaller Your Focus, The Bigger It Is - Philip Morgan

If you are struggling with how to get more clients, you will want to attend this talk. If you do not see a clear path from where you are today to rates above \$200/hour, you need to attend this talk. I’ll explain how narrowing your focus leads directly to more demand for your services, and provide several implementation “recipes” you can copy and apply to your business. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179418308[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC001PhilipMorgan.mp4)[/mepr-show]

### How To Measure Your Value - Brennan Dunn

One impediment to charging more is imposter syndrome — the feeling of "I'm not worth it." The easiest way to overcome this is to understand exactly what value you deliver to your clients, and how the work you do affects their bottom lines. In this talk, I'll detail the system I use with all of my clients. You'll learn how I figure out what the pain behind a client project is, what will happen (financially) if it's not solved, and what impact this project will have on their business. Once you're able to quantify the value you bring to your clients, you'll be able to price on that value or anchor a higher-than-market rate against that. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179415676[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC001BrennanDunn.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### Podcasting for Freelancers - Charles Max Wood

This talk will walk you through the basics you need to know to get started freelancing. We go over the basics of why you'd go freelance, how to find clients, how to balance work and life, and the essentials of owning your own business. [mepr-hide if="rule:3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179415677[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC001CharlesMaxWood.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### Managing Contractors for Fun and Profit - Marcus Blankenship

Hiring and Managing sub-contractors is one of the hardest things that freelancers need to do. It puts us squarely in the "boss" chair, where we're least comfortable. Learn the 5 keys for choosing and managing sub-contractors better: 1. Hiring for more than skills 2. Setting expectations 3. Correcting course early on 4. Communication and accountability 5. When it doesn't work out [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179418305[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC001MarcusBlankenship.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### Is technical training a good niche for you? - Reuven Lerner

Have you ever given a presentation to your local user group, or at a conference? If you get a rush from presenting to a group, sharing your knowledge with others, and knowing that you have helped to make other people more productive and informed -- then you might want to consider entering the technical training market. Nearly every high-tech company, from the smallest startups to the largest companies, has a budget for training. Companies offer such training because it makes their developers more effective -- which makes the company more efficient, and thus profitable. Good trainers are always in demand, especially for the hottest new technologies. Training pays well, is relatively easy to sell, and offers lots of opportunities for upselling additional courses. And best of all, there are none of the debates over deadlines and scheduling that are so common in the software industry. In this talk, I'll present the current state of technical training, some reasons for you to consider becoming a trainer, pitfalls that you might want to avoid -- and how you can start to approach your first clients. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule:3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179418310[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC001ReuvenLerner.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### The Scramble: What to do when you have no prospects, no work, and no idea where to go next -&nbsp;Charles Max Wood

We all know that in order to find that next job, you need to be consistently marketing. We hear a lot about productized consulting, email lists, and other techniques for finding that next job. Most of those approaches work if you're set up for a longer sales cycle where you can build trust and schedule your start date. But what if you haven't done any of that? Or you're still tweaking your marketing because it hasn't been working? There are people out there who will likely hire you that you probably hadn't thought of. We'll discuss who they are and how to approach them to start getting paid quickly and fill that pipeline, even if it's only for a few weeks while you get the rest of your pipeline working again. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179418313[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC002CharlesMaxWood.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### The Path to Value Pricing - Jonathan Stark

If you’re like most freelancers, you bill yourself out on an hourly basis. This is a terrible practice and is bad for everyone involved. It holds your business back, damages your client relationships, and prevents you from doing your best work. In this talk, Jonathan will explain why these things are true, he’ll describe an alternative method called value pricing, and will give you a few ways to transition your business from hourly billing to value pricing. In this talk, you’ll learn: \* How hourly billing limits the growth of your business \* How hourly billing damages your relationships with clients \* How value pricing works \* How value pricing differs from hourly billing \* How value pricing differs from fixed bids \* How to transition from hourly billing to value pricing [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179415679[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC002JonathanStark.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### How to Increase the Value of Your Existing Clients by 7x or More - Matt Inglot

Tired of constantly searching for and selling to new clients? It's easier and vastly more profitable to keep being hired by your existing clients instead... yet most freelancers completely miss this opportunity. After years of missing this myself, I learned how to repeatedly turn $15,000 initial projects into $100,000+ in development work. You will learn how to identify clients with this type of potential, the exact process for constantly receiving more work from these clients, and real world examples from my agency. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179415680[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC002MattInglot.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### Social media 101: 5 reasons why you’re not making more money (and how to fix that) - Mojca Marš

Your ‘social media strategy’ consists of three simple steps: Open Twitter, write something, see what happens. Usually, nothing happens, right? There is a better way of doing things. What if someone told you there’s a way to earn more money, get more clients and generate more leads with a few simple tweaks on how you do things on social media? Mojca will show you the things you’re doing wrong on social media and will lead you through the process of eliminating those mistakes and supercharging your strategy instead. Want even more? She will take it to the next level and teach you how to take the next step and start advertising on Facebook. You’ll leave with a strategy that made her clients generate over 300% ROI. How does that sound? [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179415681[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC002MocjaMars.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### No Proposal For You: Asking the Right Questions of Prospects -&nbsp;Curtis McHale

Most freelancers just take work as it comes. Someone reaches out to them with a 'dear designer' or 'dear developer' email which sort of maybe sketches out some work that money would be exchanged for. In the heat of excitement they send off a proposal which doesn't win the work. Curtis will walk you through how to define your ideal client and what questions you need to ask them so you can write a proposal that's going to win work. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179420335[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC002CurtisMcHale.mp4)[/mepr-show]

### 4 Steps to Stop Billing and Start Pricing -&nbsp;Kirk Bowman

The most important change required to take your software business to the next level is to stop billing. Billing is anytime you send the customer an invoice after the work is done and pray he pays it without question. The opposite of billing is pricing. You determine the scope of work and price in advance so the customer can make an informed buying decision. So how do you start pricing? This session will teach you the 4 steps necessary to transition from billing to pricing, create true ROI for your customer and higher profit for your business. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179416410[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC003KirkBowman.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### Delegation and Why You Need to Hire a Virtual Assistant -&nbsp;Mandy Moore

Your time equals money. Don’t spend time on pesky administrative tasks that you could easily have someone else do for you. Hiring an assistant to do the little things that keep you from doing what you really love is the key to success. In this talk, I will show you how hiring a virtual assistant is an investment; not an expense. I will tell you how to find a loyal virtual assistant who makes sh\*t happen without micromanagement. And finally, I will give you ideas of things to start delegating to someone else to free up more of your time. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179415683[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC003MandyMoore.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### What I Learned Growing a Podcast from 0 to 27k Downloads... Without Ever Listening to a Podcast - Kurt Elster

Want to fill your sales pipeline with your ideal clients all because you talked publicly to interesting people? That's the promise of podcasting, and it's absolutely real. I know because I started a successful podcast... all without ever listening to a podcast. As a result, I've become a minor celebrity within my niche, and you can too. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179260894[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC003KurtElster.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### Think big, plan small: how smaller client engagements can be a strategic advantage -&nbsp;Marie Poulin

Freelancers (and their clients) often bite off more than they can chew when launching websites, applications, and products, but starting small can be a huge strategic advantage. From project discoveries and strategic roadmaps, to "minimum viable experiences” and launch planning, helping your clients break their big ideas up into smaller projects helps you reduce risk, develop stronger relationships, and get more pro-active with your sales pipeline. Thinking big while planning small leads to higher payouts down the road; train your clients to think iteratively, and you’ll build a trusted partnership for years to come. [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179416275[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC003MariePoulin.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**

### Your Website Is Your Best Sales Person — So Why Is It Scaring Away Clients With These Simple Problems? - Kai Davis

When a prospect or lead shows up at your website, your website is your number one sales person. Your website is there to answer questions, qualify visitors, and move the right people — your best buyers — forward in the sales process. But what if your website is asleep on the job? Blowing off customers Forgetting critical information? Making you look bad? In this talk, you'll learn the three fundamental concepts that form the bedrock of your website. And we'll review the top ten most common mistakes that your website may be making right now and give detailed instructions on how to fix these mistakes. At the end of this talk, you'll come away with three things: 1. A strategy for turning your website into your best sales person 2. A clear understanding of the biggest mistakes your website might be making right now 3. The specific steps to take to optimize your website and ensure that it's working as your best sales person [mepr-hide if="rule: 3930"]**&nbsp;Embedded video and download links available to ticketholders. [Click here to buy a ticket.](https://devchat.tv/register/freelance-remote-conf-2016)**&nbsp;[/mepr-hide][mepr-show if="rule: 3930"] **&nbsp;** [ylwm\_vimeo height="360" width="640"]179415682[/ylwm_vimeo][download](https://s3.amazonaws.com/remoteconfs/freelance-2016/FRC003KaiDavis.mp4)[/mepr-show] **&nbsp;**
